In pursuit of mastery, Edwin Link, a civilian innovator, created the first flight simulator in the late 1920’s.  Later versions of Link’s simulator would be purchased by the military to develop the trust and skill of pilots who in bad weather had to fly by instrument gauges.  Today, the average youth in American “will spend “more than ten thousand hours playing computer and video games”–the same amount of time they’ve spent in school from high school graduation to fifth grade– before their 21st birthday.  Recognizing this trend, Department of Defense (DOD) built an alliance that some refer to as the “Military-Entertainment complex.”   This year, multiple commercial releases of virtual reality (VR) equipment from Oculus Rift, PlayStation VR, HTC Vive, Samsung Gear VR, and the release of Microsoft’s development edition of the HoloLens mixed reality system entered the market.  These low-cost immersive gaming systems may offer the possibility of personalized and decentralized professional developmental training. Our strategic competitors are using irregular tactics that expose the limits of America’s conventional military primacy; Special Operation Command’s (SOCOM) force modernization and development department uses offsets, to cultivate approaches that stimulate ingenuity and enable continued dominance.  Information theory and the corresponding expansion in computing ability has allowed the modeling of complex nonlinear interactions by incorporating interdisciplinary principles and relationships through general systems theory.  However, as one RAND Corporation study noted, sometimes complicated modeling and big data are not useful to military commanders. Immersive gaming makes models of complexity accessible when displayed in more tangible visual forms, and with repetition, intuitive cognition may occur more rapidly.  Simulations and gaming equipped with models of complex environments and interactions hold promise not only as a tool for cognitive training but also for maintaining competitive advantage in research and development.  DOD has strategically co-opted the gaming movement to improve tactical and operational actions. Gamification, using principles of gaming to learn, is not new; however, Moore’s law, has mainstreamed use of Live, Virtual, and Composite military training. Given this context, how should SOCOM modify existing immersive gaming efforts to enhance force readiness?