In the most recent change to the Unified Command Plan (UCP), authority for global synchronization of the Counter Weapons of Mass Destruction (CWMD) mission transferred from United States Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM) to the United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM). With that change, an already overburdened USSOCOM became the lead agency for a US government response to any event dealing with the world’s most deadly weapons of mass destruction (WMD) – nuclear, chemical, and biological – whether they come in the form of state-sponsored actions or from attacks by non-state actors. Without additional funds, or substantial re-organization, USSOCOM must strengthen relationships with existing networks to adequately deal with a global WMD threat. A real-world CWMD response would likely involve US interagency task forces and, in most cases, agencies in foreign partner nations. Collaboration and interdependence between agencies must be present to ensure information sharing across not only U.S. networks, but those of partner nations as well. Understanding how South Korean agencies work together may help strengthen and improve relationships with other partner nations since each country has unique internal organizations for dealing with WMD, and dealing with each will have its own challenges. The United States Pacific Command (USPACOM) area of responsibility poses numerous challenges to SOCOM’s task of CWMD. Chief among those regional challenges is North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, which is arguably one of the more hostile threats in the global CWMD arena. Dealing with CWMD threats on the Korean Peninsula will undoubtedly be complex, as the United States Government (USG) and USPACOM lack an established formal structure to adequately deal with problems such as counter-proliferation. The combination of the high threat and lack of pre-coordinated response make Korea susceptible to CWMD-related issues. That said, numerous CWMD capabilities exist on both the South Korean and USG side.  Q: How should the USG and USSPACOM improve cooperation with the South Korean CWMD community to accomplish mutual goals in the realm of counter-proliferation? 