Unconventional Restraint: Present-day obstacles to the proper employment of ARSOF in Unconventional Warfare There appears to be no end in sight for international conflicts drawing the United States’ (U.S.) attention abroad.  Beyond established theaters of war, clandestine threats from persistent malign actors, such as violent terrorist organizations and radical foreign leaders, continue to threaten U.S. interests requiring a timely and commensurate response.  From clandestine elements of the Russia Federation invading Ukraine to Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) fighters taking swathes of territory in Iraq, Syria, and Libya, the U.S. and its allies must face these challenges in short order to prevent their transition into existential threats against the homeland.  Yet, the United States has limited its own range of military options in multiple theaters of war by precluding Army Special Operations Forces’ (ARSOF), US Special Operations Command’s (SOCOM) lead component for Unconventional Warfare (UW), from applying UW tactics and techniques. Obstacles to ARSOF’s employment vary widely and potentially include contemporary political considerations, organizational limitations, legal restrictions, distorted capabilities and risk tolerance.  Despite this breadth of potential obstacles, detailed analysis of these variables and their effects on ARSOF’s ability to navigate the modern operational environment may offer clear insight into real, viable means of surmounting these difficulties and ultimately heighten ARSOF’s contribution to the pursuit of US interests. Given that direct support to resistance forces (as outlined in Joint Publication 3-0, “Joint Operations”) is a valid solution to achieve certain U.S. government interests, what are the significant obstacles to the employment of ARSOF elements in support to resistance activities? Present-day obstacles to the proper employment of ARSOF in Unconventional Warfare In the books Savage Wars of Peace and Invisible Armies, Max Boot chronicled the United States’ involvement in numerous “small wars;” those military actions in the ambiguous space between war and peace.  Similar to the past, the United States currently faces challenges from both state and non-state actors in Ukraine, Crimea, Syria, Yemen, and Libya, to name a few.  These types of quasi-conflicts are unlikely to go away anytime soon, and US Presidents will continue look to subordinate agencies for viable, timely, cost effective, low-risk and low-exposure options to pursue US Government interests.   In 2001, as the Twin Towers smoldered, President Bush looked to his Cabinet for solutions.  Although he was presented with a myriad of options from “the Washington Playbook,” it was ultimately the CIA and SOCOM’s plan to hunt down Al Qaeda (AQ) and foment a popular resistance movement to oust the Taliban that won.  In less than three months, three Special Forces Teams, a handful of CIA and JSOC personnel, thousands of Northern Alliance Fighters, an earth-shaking amount of airpower and several million dollars in cash toppled the Taliban Regime and drove AQ from Afghanistan.  Although supporting resistance organization is not always the answer, there are certainly instances where leveraging a resistance organization “to coerce, disrupt or overthrow a government or occupying power” is a superior choice to diplomatic or conventional military options.  In these instances, US Army Special Operations Command (USASOC) stands ready as SOCOM’s lead component for this particular type of mission, or unconventional warfare (UW) as it is formally defined in military doctrine.  As the lead component, USASOC has heavily emphasized the importance of UW.  Examples of this renewed emphasis include: updates to doctrine, transformation of entire Special Forces Battalions, yearly execution of a UW exercise and the creation of new training courses focused solely on UW. Despite overwhelming success in 2001 and a renewed emphasis on doctrine, training and capabilities