There are increasing efforts by defense analysts to identify the potential future effects of the additive manufacturing with U.S. adversaries, but seemingly little analysis on how additive manufacturing capabilities can increase the U.S. military's capacity to conduct missions.  In Afghanistan, my Special Forces Operational Detachment – Alpha (ODA) had to wait for over a week to receive a transmission housing for an all-terrain vehicle.  ATVs were mission critical in my area or operation due to the proximity of HWY-1 and its propensity to contain IEDs.  Rather than waiting a week, an organic additive manufacturing capability would have allowed our ODA to fabricate the transmission without the additional risk of transporting the part to our site by higher headquarters in a timely manner.  This capability would also prevent a significant negative impact to our force protection measures while conducting combat operations. Special Operations Forces (SOF) has always been at the forefront of testing new equipment and developing new processes prior to full implementation for general-purpose forces.  There is a unique opportunity for senior military leaders to utilize SOF formations to test additive manufacturing as a new input into the supply chain.  Simultaneously, US SOF will benefit by having an increased capability to sustain itself in austere conditions (with an existing power solution) to accomplish its mission.  There are already some organic additive manufacturing capabilities at SOF operational level headquarters. Special Operations Forces need to have an additive manufacturing capability at the lowest organic level in order to bridge its capability into the future and to provide proof of concept for the basis of non-standard/non-traditional logistics for the rest of the military.  How exactly, can additive manufacturing change the way that US SOF conducts operations?  How can this emerging capability improve sustaining special operations?  What strategy would best take advantage of adding AM capability to enhance US SOF teams’ ability to accomplish its missions? 