Why Failing Terrorist Groups Persist Revisited:  A Social Network Approach to AQIM Resilience and Recruitment General Area of Proposed Thesis Research: Significant research has been done to identify what drives individuals to join terror and insurgent groups.  Explanations range from arguments that it is “socially determined” by the larger social experience, to individual pathologies (some people are bad), to ideology, and—of course—economic deprivation.  However, the research into how terror groups can manipulate and exploit social networks to recruit individuals to their cause as well as embed their organizations into local communities has not been widely investigated and the scope of social dynamics at play is not fully explored. Following the failure of operations in Mali, AQIM lost a significant number of fighters and capabilities.  However, they have managed to regain their numbers and operational capacity, while expanding operations in Mali, Burkina Faso, Libya, Mauritania, and Ivory coast. Since the inception of its predecessor the Group for Salafist Preaching and Combat (GSPC) and before that the Armed Islamic Group of Algeria (GIA), AQIM has principally consisted of ethnic Arabs of Algerian nationality.  However, AQIM’s exile to the Sahel after sustained losses to the Algerian security forces precipitated an organizational evolution that incorporates a greater share of Sub-Saharan ethnicities in both its front-line forces and its leadership positions.  How has AQIM managed to expand its network to attract and incorporate non-Arab ethnic members into what is ostensibly a movement designed to overthrow the Algerian government?  What methods does AQIM use to socially embed within the target populations to overcome organizational and cultural preferences for homophily?  How might the introduction of multiple ethnic groups into a violent religious organization affect targeting, ideology, and organizational behavior? Methods: Using geospatial, temporal, and social network analysis tools, this project will explore the social dynamics that facilitate an exogenous network’s ability to integrate and embed itself into multiple ethnic networks while overcoming its own internal homophily.  How does AQIM’s success inform how US Special Operations Forces can better integrate and develop indigenous networks in foreign resistance groups while overcoming social barriers to network entry? 