Research Question: Is there an America identity crisis? If so, is it a threat to national security?  Introduction: This thesis will explore American Identity (what it means to be an American) and whether or not this lack of identity can be exploited by the adversaries and competitors of the United States. We propose, that if America does not get less divided or re-establish its identity, adversaries will take advantage. This thesis will need to address key American divides and why they matter. Identity issues are causing political unrest all over the world. This apparent identity crisis seems to have become most apparent during the recent US Presidential election, but existed well before that season. American priorities and involvement in the international system appear to be shifting. Considering the West’s remarkable achievements of the past three centuries, it would seem appropriate to analyze the cause for this seeming seismic shift in national priorities. Scholars, pundits, and layman alike have attempted to define American Identity throughout the course of American history. While many present convincing arguments, none fully reflect the nation that exists today. The United States have evolved through social, moral, political, ethnic, and cultural changes that require much more breadth to in defining what it means to be an American. Since domestic identity shapes foreign policy, it is imperative to fully understand the American identity in order to appropriately apply it to foreign policy dilemmas. Similarly, before the nation can adequately defend against attacks against its identity—or identities—it must understand them. Some have defined American Identity by saying that, “America is a predominantly Christian nation and becoming more so” (Samuel Huntington) or, “American Identity is pathologically aggressive and warlike” (Walter Hixson) or something wholly different. This thesis will analyze these and many similar arguments to determine if they truly reflect all Americans. This challenge is complex and demanding, as America consists of a richly diverse people, not only in ethnicity, culture, and heritage, but also in moral values. With the value of the individual clearly outlined in the Declaration of Independence and protected by the Constitution, this identity must be extremely broad with massive appeal. This analysis of the American Identity will include new research in social psychology and argue that our tribal nature facilitates these divisions and therefore, damages foreign policy initiatives resulting in greater threats to national security. America’s foreign policy should reflect the values of its culture, emphasizing individual liberty in a vastly multicultural environment and not denying but, accepting opposing viewpoints. A politically divided America is healthy until cultural hegemony is achieved by one class, political party, or race. This can lead to real or perceived fissures that could be exploited to threaten, or perhaps even reduce, US hegemony. Now, more than ever, it is essential to ask, does America lack an identity? Once this initial question is answered, this thesis will explore the extent to which adversaries can take advantage of these divisions and/or how they might further exploit division within the United States.