The Royal Canadian Air Force has failed to pivot towards the deepening operational relevance of CANSOFCOM. In its capstone document, Air Force Vectors, the RCAF clusters SOF with Space and Cyber activities, which are both significantly more niche and less mature than CANSOFCOM. With more than ten years of domestic and expeditionary SOF operations in support of Canada’s national interest, CANSOFCOM has become a highly reliable organization. The future shows no end to the prominence of SOF, which the RCAF must acknowledge and endorse. SOF has a role to play in this as well. CANSOFCOM must cohere an assessment of the future which steers its development, generation, management and sustainment writ large while specifically encompassing SOF-specific air power. Numerous trends in air and aviation indicate that the future of air power may look significantly different than today. First, it is assessed that any assets in the air domain will be a mixture of manned and unmanned assets. The use of unmanned systems is assured, to the point where a better question might be whether or not manned assets will continue to fly. A subsequent trend of future air and aviation to consider is that of the next generation of rotary wing platforms. Future rotary wing assets could trend towards super-helos, personified in the Sikorsky SB Defiant, or the tilt-rotor class of aircraft platforms, most notably the Bell V280 Valour. Regardless of which path future SOF aviation takes, it appears evident that the payload and range differentiation between helicopters and fixed wing assets will continue to coalesce in the tactical realm. Turning to future precision strike assets, the future has a potential schism lurking in the shadows between highly complex fifth and sixth generation stealth fighters, and simple, down-teched light fighters, such as the A-29 Super Tucano. Last, all the collection and action assets aside, the sheer depth and breadth of data requiring processing, exploitation and dissemination is a daunting challenge for any military element, let alone a relatively minor SOF Command. The increase in unmanned assets, artificial intelligence, future fixed and rotary wing platforms, and challenges in exploitation and dissemination of intelligence will affect the Canadian Armed Forces well into the future. There are significant and valuable implications for CANSOFCOM which will help steer capability and capacity development well into the future.